# The Parma-Light Platform

## Licence

Copyright 2025 Fraunhofer-Institut für Intelligente Analyse- und Informationssysteme, Schloss Birlinghoven 1, 53757 Sankt Augustin

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

  <http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

## Introduction

This git repository contains an implementation of the Parma-Light platform.
Parma-Light is a simple, experimental implementation of the platform published in

> Pintz, M., Becker, D., Mock, M. (2024). **PARMA: a Platform Architecture to enable Automated, Reproducible, and Multi-party Assessments of AI Trustworthiness**. In *Proceedings of the 2nd International Workshop on Responsible AI Engineering* (pp. 20–27).

- the branch `master` contains the current published version
- the branch `develop` contains a stable version, which will become `master` soon.
- the commands of the command language interpreter (CLI), which is a front-end for the platform,
  are described in `resources/APIDOC.md`
- the REST-endpoints of the platform backend are described in the same document.

## Experiment with the Platform

- A recent Python3, uv and docker installation are required. You need a shell that can run bash scripts.
- start the docker demon
- `uv sync` - install dependencies
- activate the virtual environment generated by `uv`:
  + Windows: `source .venv/Scripts/activate`
  + Linux/MacOS: `source .venv/bin/activate`
- `pytest test` - check the setup and that the branch is fine
- Try to run the admin script `./admin.sh help`.
  If you get a "permission denied" error, you need to make the admin script executable: `chmod +x admin.sh`

The setup is complete now. You can start to work with the platform

- `./admin.sh images sklearn` - you need Docker images to work with. Generate them
- `./admin.sh init` - initialize the data base
- `./admin.sh backend`
- `./admin.sh frontend` - start the CLI in **another** shell **and activate the virtual environment**
- in the CLI execute commands as:
  - `test_data example:sklearn;` - to load test data. This takes some time :-). The command executed can be found in the file `example/sklearn/demo.txt`. Some nodes and workflows are defined. Two workflows are run.
  - `login sklearn;` - you must be logged in to execute commands
  - `view workflow;` or `view run;` to see results of loading the test data.
  - `view data_of run_predict_and_metric latest;` or `view log_of run_predict_and_metric latest;` or `cat result_file latest;`
    to see generated data or logging
- in directories `test/test_cmds/**` a lot of node and workflow definitions are available to experiment with.
  As already said, CLI commands are described in `resources/APIDOC.md`.
- Terminate the frontend with the command `quit;`. Then terminate the backend by hitting `CTRL-C`.

## Further Notes

The implementation is IP of the department AAA of the Fraunhofer Institute IAIS and the Fraunhofer Institute IAIS.

For ideas, proposals and errors: contact `reinhard.budde AT iais.fraunhofer.de`
